# 30.07.2018
problems dealing with:
making flask communicate with mysql
installed wamp
just found out I have like visual C++ files missing


getting started with flask:
[here](https://scotch.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-flask-a-python-microframework)
- instalation of virtual env
`pip install virtualenv`
a tool to create isolated Python environments.
We need to use virtual environments to keep the dependencies used by different Python projects separate, and to keep our global site-packages directory clean
- install virtualenvwrapper, 
a set of extensions that make using virtualenv a whole lot easier by providing simpler commands.
`pip install virtualenvwrapper`
`export WORKON_HOME=~/Envs`
on windows
`set WORKON_HOME=~/Envs`

- To create and activate a virtualenv, run the following commands:
unix
`mkvirtualenv my-venv`
`workon my-venv`

windows
my-venv for my virtual enviroment it could be anything.
`virtualenv my-venv`
`cd my-env`

saying hello world in python flask

#directory structure:
These are a few of the common directories in a Flask project:

/app: This is a directory within my-project . We'll put all our code in here, and leave other files, such as the requirements.txt file, outside.

/app/templates: This is where our HTML files will go.

/app/static: This is where static files such as CSS and JavaScript files as well as images usually go. However, we won't be needing this folder for this tutorial since we won't be using any static files.

tree on windows
```
PS C:\Users\Qbit\my-venv\my-project> tree /F
Folder PATH listing
Volume serial number is EE05-7B29
C:.
│   app.py
│   requirements.txt
│
├───app
│   └───templates
└───__pycache__
        app.cpython-36.pyc
```
# file structure
Most Flask apps have the following basic file structure:

run.py: This is the application's entry point. We'll run this file to start the Flask server and launch our application.

config.py: This file contains the configuration variables for your app, such as database details.

app/__init__.py: This file intializes a Python module. Without it, Python will not recognize the app directory as a module.

app/views.py: This file contains all the routes for our application. This will tell Flask what to display on which path.

app/models.py: This is where the models are defined. A model is a representation of a database table in code. However, because we will not be using a database in this tutorial, we won't be needing this file.

Some projects have more modules (for example, an app/views directory with many views files in it), but this'll do for now. Go ahead and create these files, and delete hello_world.py since we won't be needing it anymore:

here is the latest directory structure
```
Folder PATH listing
Volume serial number is EE05-7B29
C:.
│   config.py
│   requirements.txt
│   run.py
│
├───app
│   │   views.py
│   │   __init__.py
│   │
│   └───templates
└───__pycache__
        app.cpython-36.pyc

```
# configuration
The `config.py` file should contain one variable per line
**Note** that this config file is very simplified and would not be appropriate for a more complex application. For bigger applications, you may choose to have different `config.py` files for testing, development, and production, and put them in a config directory, making use of classes and inheritance. You may have some variables that should not be publicly shared, such as passwords and secret keys. These can be put in an instance/config.py file, which should not be pushed to version control.


# initialisation.
Next, we have to initialize our app with all our configurations. 
This is done in the `app/__init__.py` file. 
Note that if we set `instance_relative_config` to True, we can use `app.config.from_object('config')` to load the `config.py` file.